<!-- vale off -->

# Generated Content and Integrations

## API Docs Generation

API documentation is generated by the
[OpenAPI plugin for Docusaurus](https://github.com/PaloAltoNetworks/docusaurus-openapi-docs).

We have two different OpenAPI spec files (also known as Swagger files) for two sets of APIs.

- [Palette API](../../static/apis/v1/api.json)
- [Edge Management API](../../static/apis/edge-v1/emc-api.json)

The Palette API is exposed on each instance of Palette, while the Edge management is available on each Edge host.

The make command `make api` runs the `generate-api-docs` npm script:

```bash
npm run run-api-parser && docusaurus gen-api-docs palette && docusaurus gen-api-docs emc
```

This script invokes an [API parser script](../../utils/api-parser/index.js) to process both OpenAPI spec files, and then
runs the plugin on both of the processed spec files to generate the API pages. The plugin is configured in the
`docusaurus.config.js` file, specifically in the `plugin` property of the `config` object. For example, the `emc`
command came from the configuration parameters from the original name of Local UI that was never used.

The `make clean-api` command will delete the generated API pages from both spec files. All generated API pages are
excluded from Git since they can be generated by their respective spec files.

The placement of the spec files are important. You must place the new spec files in the same location to replace the old
spec files in an update. If you want to move the files, you'll need to update their configured locations in the
`docusaurus.config.js` file, as well as the API parser script.

## Security Bulletins

The security bulletins are auto-generated upon server start or the build process. The bulletins are generated by
querying an internal Spectro Cloud API. The bulletins are displayed in the security bulletins page
`https://docs.spectrocloud.com/security-bulletins/reports/`.

The logic for generated the security bulletins is located in the [cves folder](../../utils/cves/index.js). The script is
invoked before a build or a local development server start. The script will fetch the security bulletins and store the
data in the `.docusaurus/security-bulletins/default/` folder. The data is stored in the `data.json` file.

The script will also generate each markdown file for each security bulletin. The markdown files are stored in the
`/security-bulletins/reports/` folder.

### Disable Security Bulletins

To disable the security bulletins, you can set the environment variable `DISABLE_SECURITY_INTEGRATIONS` to `true`. This
will stop the pre-build script from fetching the security bulletins.

```shell
export DISABLE_SECURITY_INTEGRATIONS=true
```

### Cached Security Bulletins

All CVE related data is saved to a
[GitHub Workflow Artifact](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/storing-and-sharing-data-from-a-workflow#about-workflow-artifacts)
after every successful release to production. Check out the
[post_release.yaml](../../.github/workflows/post_release.yaml) for further details. The cached data enables us to build
and start librarium without performing any CVE-related API queries. All of our GitHub workflows will use this cached
data as a fallback in the case of an API related build failure. Check out the
[build-cached-cves action.yaml](../../.github/actions/build-cached-cves/action.yaml) to learn how the cached data is
fetched and used.

CVE data is saved locally in the `.docusaurus/security-bulletins/default/data.json` file. You can remove the data using
`make clean-security`. You can use the cached CVE artifact locally when you want to avoid the CVE download time. This
flow also helps you when you don't have any local CVE data and we are experiencing an API outage.

Librarium provides the following commands that fetch cached CVE data into your local environment.

| **Command**              | **Description**                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `make get-cached-cves`   | Fetch the CVE data artifact and place files in the correct places. You can then execute `make start` or `make build` as usual.                 |
| `make start-cached-cves` | Attempt to start the local development server. If a CVE related outage is detected, fetch the CVE data artifact and retry the `start` command. |
| `make build-cached-cves` | Attempt to build the application. If a CVE related outage is detected, fetch the CVE data artifact and retry the `build` command.              |

These scripts will prompt you to install and authenticate the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) before you can
proceed.

## Packs Component

The packs component is a custom component that displays all packs available in Palette SaaS by querying the Palette API
at `api.spectrocloud.com`. The component is powered by a [custom plugin](../../plugins/packs-integrations.js) that
fetches the data before a build or a local development server start.

> [!NOTE]
>
> The data is stored in the file `.docusaurus/packs-integration/api_pack_response.json` once all the packs are fetched.
> The logos are stored in `static/img/packs/`. If you remove the `.docusarus` folder, the plugin will fetch the packs
> again. If the pack's data is present, the plugin will skip re-downloading the data. If you want to remove the packs
> data and trigger a new fetch, you can issue the following command `make clean-packs`.

Pack descriptions are stored in a JSON file maintained by the documentation team. The JSON file is located at
[`/static/packs-data/packs_information.json`](../../static/packs-data/packs_information.json). To add an entry for a new
pack, add the following JSON object to the file.

```json
{
  "name": "insert the name of the pack. DO NOT USE THE DISPLAY NAME",
  "description": "insert description here"
}
```

Some things to keep in mind related to descriptions. If the local development server is active and you make changes to
the `/static/packs-data/packs_information.json`file, the changes will not be reflected in the pack component. You must
stop and restart the local development server to observe the changes. The same applies to the build process. Another
thing to remember is to reference a pack by the name used in the Palette API, not the display name. You can find the
pack's name in the description component or by looking at the URL of the pack's page.

### Excluding Packs

You can specify a list of packs to exclude from the packs component. To exclude a pack, add the pack name to the
[exclude_packs.json](../../static/packs-data/exclude_packs.json) file.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```json
[
  "palette-upgrader", 
  "csi-aws-new", 
  "insert-pack-name-here"
]
```

Excluded packs are not displayed in the packs component.

### Disable Plugin

To disable the packs plugin, you can set the `DISABLE_PACKS_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable to `true`. This will
prevent the plugin from running and fetching the packs data. The packs component will not display any data if the plugin
is disabled.

```shell
export DISABLE_PACKS_INTEGRATIONS=true
```

Settting the `DISABLE_PACKS_INTEGRATIONS` environment variable to `true` will also have the following effects:

- The PDE/App Mode Packs are still displayed.
- All production pack pages are added to the redirects file. This is to prevent broken URLs.
- Fallback logic is activated in the `PacksReadme`, `PacksInformation`, and `Packs` components. Redirect to the
  `integrations/` page is the new behavior.
- The Packs list page will display a warning message indicating that the packs data is not available.

### Cached Packs Data

All pack related data is saved to a
[GitHub Workflow Artifact](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/writing-workflows/choosing-what-your-workflow-does/storing-and-sharing-data-from-a-workflow#about-workflow-artifacts)
after every successful release to production. Check out the
[post_release.yaml](../../.github/workflows/post_release.yaml) for further details. The cached data enables us to build
and start librarium without performing any pack related API queries. All of our GitHub workflows will use this cached
data as a fallback in the case of an API related build failure. Check out the
[build-cached-packs action.yaml](../../.github/actions/build-cached-packs/action.yaml) to learn how the cached data is
fetched and used.

Packs data is saved locally in the `.docusaurus/packs-integrations` and `static/img/packs` folders. You can remove the
data using `make clean-packs`. You can use the cached packs artifact locally when you don't have any downloaded packs
data and you want to avoid the pack download time. This flow also helps you when you don't have any local packs data and
we are experiencing an API outage.

Librarium provides the following commands, which fetch cached packs to your local environment.

| **Command**               | **Description**                                                                                                                                    |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `make get-cached-packs`   | Fetch the packs data artifact and pace files in the correct places. You can then execute `make start` or `make build` as usual.                    |
| `make start-cached-packs` | Attempt to start the local development server. If a packs related outage is detected, fetch the packs data artifact and retry the `start` command. |
| `make build-cached-packs` | Attempt to build the application. If a packs related outage is detected, fetch the packs data artifact and retry the `build` command.              |

These scripts will prompt you to install and authenticate the [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) before you can
proceed.

### README Content

The pack component will display a Pack's README file if it exists. The README content comes from the Palette API.
Depending on the available content, the packs component will display the README content, the additional details content,
or a message indicating that no content is available. Refer to the table below for the different scenarios.

| README Available | Additional Details File Available | Content Displayed                                        |
| ---------------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| ✅               | ✅                                | Both README and Additional Details content is displayed. |
| ✅               | ❌                                | Only the README content is displayed.                    |
| ❌               | ✅                                | Only the Additional Details content is displayed.        |
| ❌               | ❌                                | A message indicating that no content is available.       |

### Additional Details Content

To display the Additional Details content, create a markdown file with the same name as the pack in the the
[`docs/docs-content/integrations/`](../docs-content/integrations/) content folder. For example, if the pack name is
`ubuntu-aws`, you would create a markdown file called `ubuntu-aws.mdx`.

When you create Additional Details content, the `category` field is optional because it is unused, and the `logoUrl`
field is only necessary when a pack has no `README` file.

Your frontmatter might resemble the following example.

```
---
sidebar_label: "Pack Name"
title: "Pack Name"
description: "Pack description"
hide_table_of_contents: true
type: "integration"
sidebar_class_name: "hide-from-sidebar"
tags: ["tag1", "tag2", "tag3"]
logoUrl: "https://registry.dev.spectrocloud.com/v1/heartbeat/blobs/sha256:19fec69ae172c3e54d5fb09c176517cf7bfeb1bc740bde65c200e14115510313?type=image.webp"
---
```

The additional details content requires you to follow the
[Packs layout guide](https://spectrocloud.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DE/pages/1802797059/Packs).

If you want to add content specific to a version, include the following heading and tabs component in the markdown file.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```md
## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="parent"> -> Tabs for different versions
<TabItem label="1.1.x" value="1.1.2">
 Insert content here as needed. Create more `TabItem` components as needed.
</TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

> [!WARNING]
>
> Ensure the`Tabs` component has the `queryString` prop set to `parent`. This is required for the component to work. The
> `Tabs` component must also have a `## Versions Supported` heading. If you do not follow this format, the content will
> not be displayed correctly, and as a result, actual tabs will be displayed, and the pack will lose the ability to
> automatically display the content for the select version the user has specified in the version drop-down.

The packs component will always display the top-level tab content, so if you add content for a new version, ensure the
new `TabItem` component is the first in the list. If a new pack version does not have a respective tag, the latest
version content will be displayed automatically.

### Link to a Pack

You must use the `<VersionedLink />` component to link to a pack. The following is an example of how to link to a pack.

```mdx
<VersionedLink text="Change Cluster DNS Service Domain" url="/integrations/packs/?pack=kubernetes-eks" />
```

If you do not use the `<VersionedLink />` component, the link will not be versioned correctly, and the build will fail.

### Redirect to a pack

If you have a page that needs to redirect to a pack page you can use the `RedirectPackPage` component. The syntax for
its usage is as follows.

```

<RedirectPackPage packName="myPack" />

```

Your page will now redirect to `/integrations/packs/?pack=myPack`.

### Create link with full URL display

You must use the `<FullUrlLink />` component to create a link that displays its full URL in text, as this is currently
not supported by markdown.

```mdx
<FullUrlLink path="/apis/v1/palette-apis.json" />
```

Check out [Import the Postman Collection](../api-content/api-docs/3-postman-collection.md#import-the-postman-collection)
for an example.

## Our Kapa Widget Setup

Kapa is our embedded AI assistant that helps users navigate documentation and find answers through natural-language
search. It provides a plug-and-play JavaScript script that loads the Kapa widget with a solid list of built-in
customization options that come out-of-the-box. It also has a JavaScript API that we can use to build customized
functions if we need it, but a custom-built solution has high upfront as well as maintenance costs.

### Configuration Block

Since we use Docusaurus, which Kapa has built dedicated customization for, all we did to enable Kapa was to add a
configuration block in our `docusaurus.config.js` file. You can find the relevant block in the `allScripts` variable.

### Customizations

All of our customizations, except for the keyboard shortcut, were made using Kapa’s supported configuration fields.
While additional changes using CSS or JavaScript are technically possible, Kapa strongly discourages unsupported
customizations due to maintenance and compatibility risks with future updates. You can review all available parameters
in the [Kapa documentation - Configuration](https://docs.kapa.ai/integrations/website-widget/configuration) page.

#### Branding

We use fields such as `data-project-color` and `data-project-logo` to customize the color and logo of the website
widget.

```json
...
    "data-project-color": "#3A9D99",
    "data-project-logo": "/img/spectrocloud-mark-light-bkgd-RGB.svg"
```

#### Pop-up Style

Instead of having a central pop-up that blocks the rest of the site, we chose a dialogue window that appears on the
side. It allows users to navigate to different pages while continuing the conversation. We did this by following the
instructions on [Style the widget like a customer help chat](https://docs.kapa.ai/integrations/website-widget). The
entire implementation also only required changes to the configuration block.

#### Privacy Notice

These fields are part of Kapa's built-in consent flow and can be set directly in the config block. We used the following
blocks to implement the privacy notice in accordance with compliance requirements. Our compliance team provided the
text.

```json
...
    "data-consent-required": "true",
    "data-consent-screen-title": "Privacy Notice",
    "data-consent-screen-disclaimer":
      "Thank you for using our chat service!  Information you submit through this chat is subject to our [Privacy Policy and Terms of Use](https://www.spectrocloud.com/privacy-policy) and will be processed by our service provider. Please do not enter sensitive information. Chat transcripts may be kept for future reference.",
    "data-consent-screen-accept-button-text": "Accept",
    "data-consent-screen-reject-button-text": "Decline",
...
```

#### Keyboard Shortcut

We use the `/static/scripts/kapa-shortcut.js` file to enable the **CTRL + I** keyboard shortcut for opening the Kapa
widget. We wanted to use **CTRL + K**, but that space was taken up by Algolia.
